Code Book
========================================================
Author: Luiz Claudio D. M. F. Boechat
----------------------------------------------

This document describes the data sets created by the script **run_analysis.R**. They are generated after some procedures are applied to the data collected by Samsung after running some experiments. The objective of the script is to generate tidy data sets.

The complete description of the raw data set is presented in:

http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

The raw data set used by the solution is available for download in:

https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip

### **result**

#### Transformations

The script generates this data set by executing these steps:

1. Checking if raw data files are available in the working directory;
  * if not, they are downloaded;
2. Reading metadata (activity and features names), train data and test data;
  * the activity IDs from train and test data are translated into activity labels;
  * only the features that refer to mean and standard deviation for each measurement are extracted;
3. Merging train data and test data;
  * the variables are also renamed;
4. Writing the result into the text file **result.txt**.

#### Variables

1. Type: character
  * It describes if data comes from train or test data sets.
2. Subject: number
  * Number describing the subject that participated from the experiment and generated each row of data;
  * Data present in files "subject_train.txt" and "subject_test.txt"
3. ActivityID: number
  * Number identifying which person generated each row of data during experiments.
4. Activity: character
  * Name of the activity performed that generated each row of data;
  * It is calculated using ActivityID and the table available in "activity_labels.txt".
5. Other variables: number
  * mean and standard deviation values for all measurements available in the raw data set;
  * complete information can be found in "features_info.txt".

### **averageResult**

#### Transformations

This data set is generated by realizing the following operations on the **result** data set:

1. Calculating the mean of each variable by subject and by activity using the method **aggregate()**;
2. Selecting the relevant columns: subject, activity and variable means.

```{r}
aggregate(result, by=list(result$Subject, result$Activity), FUN=mean, na.rm=TRUE)
```

#### Variables

1. Subject: number
  * Number describing the subject that participated from the experiment and generated each row of data;
  * Data present in files "subject_train.txt" and "subject_test.txt"
2. Activity: character
  * Name of the activity performed that generated each row of data;
  * It is calculated using ActivityID and the table available in "activity_labels.txt".
5. Mean of other variables: number
  * mean of the remaining variables from **result** data set
  